---
layout: post
title:  "On The Events in Charlottesville, Virginia"
date:   2017-08-12 11:44:45 -0400
categories: ccannon christianity racism charlottesville nazis white-supremacy
---
On the morning of August 12th, 2017 white nationalist protestors descended upon the city of Charlottesville, Virginia, in what the Southern Poverty
Law Center predicted to be the "largest hate-gathering of its kind in decades in the United States." As many feared, the so-called demonstration quickly
turned violent as the "Unite the Right" belligerents clashed with anti-protestors, culminating in a seeming impromptu terrorist attack as James Alex
Fields Jr drove his car into a crowd of peaceful counter-protestors, killing one woman and injuring many more. Shortly before this, the governor of Virginia
declared a state of emergency and ordered the "demonstration" dispersed.

Below, I summarize my thoughts on the events of today:

I am sickened that people who claim to be Americans, who claim to be patriots, and, worst of all, some claim to be Christians, marched on the streets of
a small Virginia town-turned-warzone under the flags of Nazis, insurrectionists, and hate. I **vehemently reject** any and all of the sickening claims I've
witnessed on social media claiming some sort of inspiration for this hate resting in the God of Moses, Isaiah, and David. These claims disgust me, and
they disgust the God I serve.

I am heartbroken for the family of the woman killed today. I am hopeful that the federal investigation into this matter results in the federal terrorism charges
that it so clearly warrants. To use a vehicle as a weapon against an unarmed crowd simply because they disagree with your racist, hateful, anti-American message
is the very _definition_ of terrorism, and calling it anything less is _insulting_ to logic, morality, and the memory of the woman he killed.

I am, frankly, disappointed in some of the tactics of counter-protestors that I've seen documented on the news. Standing in front of hateful bigots
hoping beyond hope for a fight and giving them one only fuels their cause. I wonder what happened to the days of ignoring the bully, because reacting to hate
with hate only drowns the world in it? Perhaps that is a naive worldview, but I can't help but think that the truly dangerous nazis and klansmen in the
crowd today got exactly what they'd hoped for.

I am insulted by the message of President Trump today. Blaming the hate and bigotry on "many sides" is a pathetic sidestep to avoid truly condemning radical
white nationalism and white supremacy. As I stated above, I do not think that some counter-protestors used to wisest approach to combat the hate they faced,
but let me be absolutely clear: only one group entered Charlottesville with hate, bigotry, and evil in their hearts, and they were the ones carrying nazi and
confederate flags and as many symbols of hate as they could muster.

I mourn for the state policemen killed in the helicopter crash while attempting to monitor the chaos, and if any drones or other interference from _anyone_ present,
no matter which side they were on, contributed to the crash I hope they are held responsible.

I praise God for every person of peace who did not confront hate with hate but with grace and defiant love. That is how these days are won.

I praise God for men and women who put themselves at risk to protect all those present, police, fire, EMS, and national guard.

I do not know how we, as a nation, are to recover from all of the hate we live in. But I am at _peace_ knowing that this world is not eternal, but God's Kingdom is.

These are my reactions, I don't know if they will help anyone process the events of today better, but writing like this certainly helped me process.

> Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called children of God. Matthew 5:9
